Adds Playwright ADR (0076) (#255)
transcom/mymove-docs: docs/adrs/0076-use-playwright.md

---
title: "0076 Convert integration tests to Playwright"
---

# Convert integration tests to Playwright

## Background

> As of the end of 2022, MilMove has been using [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) as its integration test framework for several years (long enough that the original decision to use Cypress instead of other technologies was not captured in an ADR). Our suite of integration tests, which has been built up by developers over the life of the project, run as a part of every build in our continuous integration process and ideally will verify that our browser and server code are working together correctly. Many user stories and epics will include making additions to our suite of integration tests as part of the acceptance criteria.

Reviewer: **suggestion (non-blocking)**: I wasn't around so I have no idea why an ADR wasn't written, but we do have ADRs about some other early decisions, so idk if it's about how long ago we started using `Cypress`. Not a huge deal, but I personally like this wording a bit more:

```suggestion
As of the end of 2022, MilMove has been using [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) as its integration test framework for several years (unfortunately, the original decision to use Cypress instead of other technologies was not captured in an ADR). Our suite of integration tests, which has been built up by developers over the life of the project, run as a part of every build in our continuous integration process and ideally will verify that our browser and server code are working together correctly. Many user stories and epics will include making additions to our suite of integration tests as part of the acceptance criteria.
```

In July 2022, an effort was undertaken to [upgrade the version of Cypress to 10.3.1](https://github.com/transcom/mymove/pull/8934), which was the current version at the time. It was discovered that with the upgrade to version 10, a non-trivial amount of file renaming and restructuring work would need to be performed; once that was completed, [the rate of test failures increased significantly](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1AsBB8_EkQ1ltqM2a4zfdDs4EvTfqdN76slUrdXeH5LA/edit#gid=0). Several existing and currently passing tests were now failing on each execution, with others now failing at an incidence rate of 10-20% when run as a part of our CI process. This was investigated, but ultimately set aside in the interest of feature development work.

> In December 2022, a renewed effort was undertaken to [upgrade the version of Cypress to 12.0.2](https://github.com/transcom/mymove/pull/9737), which was now the current version. The same file renaming and restructuring work needed to be performed; once finished, [the rate of test failures skyrocketed](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1P2qvEZqdW9Wyg5McYAe7GNt64abSKjSU3pFhIsJneZE/edit#gid=1060625568). The number of both consistently failing and sporadically failing tests had approximately doubled from the effort six months earlier, and now affected at least half of all integration tests in our existing suite.

Reviewer: **question**: I don't have access to the first google sheets link (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1AsBB8_EkQ1ltqM2a4zfdDs4EvTfqdN76slUrdXeH5LA/edit#gid=0) and the second one seems to be open to anyone with the link (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1P2qvEZqdW9Wyg5McYAe7GNt64abSKjSU3pFhIsJneZE/edit#gid=1060625568). Should they both just be open to anyone with the link? Both the mymove repo and this docs repo are open source so that feels like it's probably fine, but I figured I'd ask in case anyone thinks it should be different.

Given that, if we are going to need to re-write a significant portion (if not all) of our integration test code base, it makes sense at this juncture to evaluate other tools that may be a better fit for our application and needs. [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) is a well-supported integration test library that's seeing rapid community adoption.

> Comparable to Cypress in aim, Playwright has the benefit of improved tooling around automatic test generation (increasing developer velocity), as well as much stronger, interactive reporting of errors as opposed to Cypress' video output. The compile-time and runtime for Playwright tests, especially locally, is also improved over the Cypress baseline, providing a significantly shorter feedback loop that allows for better developer iteration. Unlike Cypress, the interface of code written for Playwright is similar to that of React Testing Library, which we're already using for our front end unit tests. (The [Cypress Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/docs/cypress-testing-library/intro/) also package provides that familiar interface to Cypress, but without the other tooling improvements.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Comparable to Cypress in aim, Playwright has the benefit of improved tooling around automatic test generation (increasing developer velocity), as well as much stronger, interactive reporting of errors as opposed to Cypress' video output. The compile-time and runtime for Playwright tests, especially locally, is also improved over the Cypress baseline, providing a significantly shorter feedback loop that allows for better developer iteration. Unlike Cypress, the interface of code written for Playwright is similar to that of React Testing Library, which we're already using for our front end unit tests. (The [Cypress Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/docs/cypress-testing-library/intro/) package also provides that familiar interface to Cypress, but without the other tooling improvements.)
```

One final consideration is around the timeframe of changing over to any new tool. We have multiple efforts nominally underway, but functionally stalled, that would gradually let us change our way of working from one library or technique to another. We want to avoid another iteration of this pattern, and while we are cognizant of the risks and communication costs of any sort of cutover, we will seek to convert all existing Cypress-based integration tests to Playwright at once, immediately removing our dependence on the older tool.

> (It's worth noting that we've started a preliminary, experimental effort in to convert a subset of our Cypress-based integration test code base into Playwright using the improved tooling that's available to us. The results have been promising, both in terms of completeness and speed of development.)

Reviewer: **suggestion (non-blocking)**: It would be good if we could link any in-progress PRs, or proof-of-concept PRs, if we can. Not a huge deal if we don't have any PRs yet though.
